
# Installation Instructions

This describes how to set up your system for working on this threepress RDFa
fork in a [virtualenv](http://pypi.python.org/pypi/virtualenv) environment.

This has been worked through on Mac OS X. Other operating systems will differ.
If you get it working in any other platforms, please let me know what you had
to do, so that I can update this information.

## Assumptions

This assumes that you are comfortable with the command line (Terminal) and that
you have Python and Git already installed. The Python 2.6, which comes with Mac
OS X, works just fine.

This assumes that you do *not* have `virtualenv` installed. If you do, then
you'll need to skip some of the steps below as appropriate. Also, if you
already have some of the Python libraries that threepress depends installed on
your system, you'll receive an error message when you try to re-install them.
Don't worry about that; just keep going.

## Setting up the Environment

First, we need to install `virtualenv` and set up a sandbox to install
threepress RDFa and everything else you'll need. To get started, open up a
command line window and type the commands **in bold**.

    easy_install virtualenv
    virtualenv threepress
    cd threepress
    echo 'export PYTHONPATH=$VIRTUAL_ENV/threepress:$VIRTUAL_ENV/threepress/bookworm' >> bin/activate
    echo 'export DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE=bookworm.settings' >> bin/activate
    source bin/activate

## Dependencies

Now, we need to install the dependencies necessary for the threepress site.

    pip install cssutils
    pip install python-openid
    pip install twill
    pip install BeautifulSoup
    STATIC_DEPS=true easy_install lxml
    pip install http://django-evolution.googlecode.com/svn/trunk
    hg clone https://gdata-python-client.googlecode.com/hg gdata-python-client
    easy_install gdata-python-client

## threepress RDFa

Now get threepress RDFa. The command below is for read-only access to it. If
you have read-write access, substitute in the correct URL for that (you can
find it on [the project page](https://github.com/erochest/threepress-rdfa)).

    git clone git://github.com/erochest/threepress-rdfa.git

## More Dependencies

Now that threepress RDFa is in place, you also need to install a few more
dependencies.

    svn co http://minidetector.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ minidetector
    cp -r minidetector/minidetector/ threepress-rdfa/bookworm/minidetector

## Setting up Django with SQLite

If you set up Bookworm to use SQLite databases, searching won't work, but this
is very easy to get going, and most everything else seems to work.

First we'll create a directory for logging:

    mkdir threepress-rdfa/bookworm/log

Next, create the file `threepress-rdfa/bookworm/local.py`. It specifies the
database settings and turns debugging on. It should contain this:

    import settings
    # Local settings for development.
    DEBUG = True
    TEMPLATE_DEBUG = DEBUG
    settings.DATABASES['default']['ENGINE'] = 'django.db.backends.sqlite3'
    settings.DATABASES['default']['NAME'] = 'bookworm.sqlite'

And finally, initialize the database:

    django-admin.py syncdb

This will print some warning information (most of this should go away in the
near future). It will also ask you some questions about settings up a
superuser. You want to create one; remember the username and password.

## Setting up Django with MySQL

If you want the full capabilities of Bookworm, you need to use MySQL and enable
full-text searching.

Like above, first create a directory for logging:

    mkdir threepress-rdfa/bookworm/log

Next, create a database in MySQL:

    CREATE DATABASE bookworm DEFAULT character set = UTF8;

You also might want to create a user with permission to create databases and
tables (for setting up and testing), as well as adding, removing, and viewing
data.

Next, create the file `threepress-rdfa/bookworm/local.py`. It specifies the
database settings and turns debugging on. It should look something like this
(you'll need to insert the right information for the username and password, and
you may need to change some other settings as well):

    import settings
    # Local settings for development.
    DEBUG = True
    TEMPLATE_DEBUG = DEBUG
    DATABASES = {
            'default': {
                'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.mysql',
                'NAME': 'bookworm',
                'USER': '<USERNAME>',
                'PASSWORD': '<PASSWORD>',
                'HOST': '127.0.0.1',
                'PORT': '3306',
                'OPTIONS': {
                    'init_command': 'SET storage_engine=MyISAM',
                    }
                },
            }

Now initialize the database:

    django-admin.py syncdb

This will print some warning information (most of this should go away in the
near future). It will also ask you some questions about settings up a
superuser. You want to create one; remember the username and password.

Finally, enable full text searching. Again in MySQL, execute this command:

    USE bookworm;
    CREATE FULLTEXT INDEX epubtext ON library_htmlfile (words);

## Running the Site

The site is set up now. Every time that you want to work on it, you'll need to
open a command line window and follow these steps:

    cd <YOUR threepress DIRECTORY>
    source bin/activate
    django-admin.py runserver

